The study is underway of what A&M should aspire to
be. What do you think the typical cross-section
attitude was of the student body at that time
regarding women, volunteer corps, and racial
integration. If we'd had a student body
referendum. Well, I'll tell you, let me just go
back and I probably can't talk on the racial issue
because I don't think it was really even, I don't
even remember it being considered or discussed. I
do know the two areas that was very, very touching
my senior year in which seemed to be the most
discussions around the dorm or the dining hall
dealt with the change in the name of the school.
because I knew it was coming, and then letting
young ladies come here. And I think everybody
publicly, any discussions was against it, but I
think if you talk one-on-one or you had buddies
talking, it wasn't such a bad idea. But I can
remember the dining hall one time when we had this
meeting, yay maroon yay white texas state fight
fight fight you know because they thought we might
be going to change our names to that i think that
just about everybody that I dealt with or anything
I ever heard had the old saying, the old army's
going to hell, you know. And I don't know that I
remember like I did when I worked in the
Commandant's office or when I came back again and
worked in the Commandant's office where you had
all this vocal
just just drive you crazy as we'd say the redneck
Aggies out there raising hell about you know alarm
is changing that's good traditions are going to
hell everything's everything's wrong and And
then I found out just how strong the former
students are, a portion of the former students
are. And usually the one thing I observe later on,
it's the person that complains about one thing,
he's also going to be complaining about the next
time something comes up. But I think that I was
probably... not into the mainstream of what was
going on because I worked intramural department
for four years and I didn't, usually didn't read
the battalion because, you know, get always get
back in time for CQ or this or that but but I do know
that most everybody felt that that that we dealt
with felt like it's terrible that they're going to
let females that was the one big big problem and I
remember when I graduated the chairman of the
board of regents who had been pretty well
responsible, was giving out diplomas and there
were two or three people saying, I hope that
blankety blank doesn't give me my diploma. Was
that Sterling Evans? No, no. That was out of a
gentleman out of Fort Worth, Mr. White Peterson.
And against him, as I mentioned earlier, you know,
we can see again how wrong we were, you know, and
thank goodness that there were people like him and
General Rutter that did have the views of the
future. in terms of ethnicity and so forth, there
was some ethnic variety in the student body when
you were a student. How did... How were Hispanics?
Oh, I think there was a limited number of Hispanics
here and they came in and they were accepted. I
mean, I think everybody and probably the main
point about coming to Texas A&M was You came in here
and you were treated equally. If you were a
freshman, it didn't make any difference whether
mommy or daddy were rich. You were Fish Jones or
Fish Smith. But what was even more important with
your class, which is very important, you earned
your respect of your fellow classmates or you lost
your respect of your fellow classmates by doing
something dumb or stupid or not being bonded or
part of the team. and that's why again it changed so
much when we had girls here because all of a sudden
you don't have five guys going out to a movie
together going out to eat together once in a while
going to ball games together which did help in the
old days bond the people together and but were you
all even aware of the family income of your of your
outfit mates? You had a general idea just based on
discussions because you lived so close. You knew
if somebody was a little rich boy or whatever, but
most of the time if the guy got out there and
participated in intramurals, for an example, or
He was a sharp dresser, just as long as you were part
of the effort. If you were going to babble-bomb an
upperclassman, it was an effort, and it meant that
all the freshmen paid the price together because
you knew it was going to come. Or you did something
which was considered good bull. You knew you were
going to get in trouble. Who were, and I've got it
phrased here, the notable campus personalities?
Who were they? Well, I think at the time when I was
here, I said back, and again, it'd be different for
the different people. You know, if you were in the
singing cadets, definitely the director would
have, you know, would have been the Bob Boone type
of person, would have been very, very important in
some people's lives. I think overall,
there was, I was not in engineering, but Dean
Ranstall, was later Basic Division, was a name
that you go see. If you had a problem, Mr. Gay in the
YMCA was another person that was really, really a
first-class human being. Everybody, of course,
was scared of General Rutter, but General Rutter
was respected. You know, he was respected. Did
anybody ever play any, attempt to play any pranks
on him? Only on his dog. Only on Ranger that would
get painted up with every type of...
Well, some of it would have slogans. Sometimes
somebody would be an artist and do a picture on the
dog. Just like Ranger would show up here, there,
and everywhere. Just like we had Tripod and then,
of course, Reveille. Nobody ever attended any
Frank's present house. I don't know if they did. I
never knew. I lived in the other area where his
house was my last three years, and I remember, of
course, when the house burned down. Were you here?
Mm-hmm. Let's see. Was I not? I thought I was here.
What year did it burn? I don't know. maybe maybe
maybe i had just come back and he was living over
there i'd haskell i don't know i'll tell you what i
do know uh my junior senior year uh lived in dorm 16
and and their youngest child who was quite a bit
younger than bud being the oldest and then linda
and jane and anne bobby Bobby would come to my and my
roommate's room every afternoon he adopted us and
then the maid would come down there and yell for
Bobby and I remember sitting in church one time
when the rudders were going down to the front
second pew where they always sit and Bobby yells
mommy there's buck and I wanted to crawl under but I
remember when the rudder's house uh burned and
they lived over on Lee Street and so I'd have to go
back and look and see what year that was. What about
P.L. Downs Jr.? Pinky was just of course we all at
that time I think most of us thought that something
was wrong with him and he was just this funny old
skinny guy that looked like he was going to
collapse up there when he pulled his tie off to
throw it at Yale practice but It was quite a bit
later before I think any of us ever found out what an
outstanding individual he was and and his record
and Oh, yes, everybody Lupo had a had a tremendous
reputation because if there was a problem
Especially if someone really got in problem you
could go see Lupo and I think it was John Adams told
me that, and I know Red Duke worked for Lew and John
Adams worked for him, but I think it was John that
told me that he'd pick up the mail and lots of times
there'd be just a check, somebody paying Lew many,
many years later for borrowing money from him. I
heard Mr. Lupo say one time that he didn't think any
Aggie ever had failed to pay you. He didn't
elaborate on having kept the books that accurate
or anything. For you, who were the key teachers,
advisors, as you think about it. Right. Oh, I think
it's real. I mentioned to you two or three times
that I was involved in intramurals. I was
fortunate to
work with Barney Welch and Mr. Penn Berthy, and
then the last two years, my fourth and fifth year,
Chuck McCandless came down here. So with the
intramural, that was very, very just
outstanding. What did those people teach you?
Well, I think they were just, all of them took an
interest in you. And you can't imagine when you're
down here and first you're a country boy and you're
treated and then all of a sudden somebody takes
time to just want to know about you, how you're
doing and all of this. And then in the intramurals
we had where you could be sophomore intramural
manager and then junior and then senior and they
had four seniors every year. But if you had any
problems, but the most important thing I remember
about any of them, if you ever were in their office
or anything, they'd talk to you. And they didn't
seem to be rushed. And I know I mentioned Randall. I
was also in my undergraduate in rural sociology.
Well, I had Dr. Russell, Dr. Davis,
Dr. Brown, Dr. Nelson. These people were just
outstanding human beings. A lot of them had served
in World War II, but a number of them were Aggies.
But they just took an interest in the students. And
if you were doing poorly in class, they'd talk to
you about it. How did Dan Russell describe him? He
was, a lot of people didn't give him credit, the
students, for being as outstanding as an
individual as he was. You know, of course, he had
been in Chicago in the Al Capone days and had gone to
graduate school, but his He was just involved in
everything. He got a lot of publicity, of course,
from the project houses, but I think the thing I
remember the most about him is helping students. I
know I had a thought that I might want to go into
recreational work or scout work, and his
brother-in-law was in charge of the City of Dallas
Parks and Recreation Service, but just the kind of
individual you could go talk with. And there were
certain professors. You had the outstanding
professors in your arena, Ashcroft. Dr.
Ashcroft's probably my favorite professor of all
times at A&M because Although I would have a hard
time saying Don Barker is another one. Of course, I
had Chuck McCandless for a couple, and just had so
many in the second time around in educational
psychology. But I think Dr. Ashcroft was probably
one of the most interesting professors. Probably
the worst professors were the chemistry with the
standardized exam, because you could have a good
professor, but then you'd have the exam when you go
take it, and you'd wonder, where did this come
from? If you needed academic advice, where did you
turn? We had the Basic Division, which had a good
reputation here. It was kind of like General
Studies, but it had some older men that worked
there. Were there some individuals you would call
in the Basic Division? Let's see, who would have,
I'm trying to think who the names would be. Austin
Curley was there. I had Dr. Curley in graduate
school for a couple classes, and of course he's
just a very outstanding human being. What about
R.C. Potts? I had, now you're talking about Dr.
Potts in agriculture? Yes, I got to meet Dr. Potts
when I was a junior because I was going to drop out
the end of my sophomore year and join the Marine
Corps and then come back to school, and I quit going
to class, and then my daddy decided I was coming
back to school, and Only time in my life he ever said
anything to me, I guess. And I came down, and Dr.
Potts called me in and called me Mr. Henderson and
said he was going to put me on probation. And I said,
Dr. Potts, I've got to see average. He says, Mr.
Henderson, I'm putting you on a no-cut probation
for a full year. And I didn't miss a class my junior
year. And when I came back here, teach ROTC and as
assistant commandant, I sat across the table from
him one time at a meeting and I was just saying, I
wonder if he remembered. I know he remembered very
well, but no. I think that is shining, a shining
example of most of the professors here, wherever
you were, they took an interest in the students.
C.K. Esten, what an experience. Was he a good
teacher? He was a good teacher, but, you know, if
you went in there and you were kind of a country boy,
you're about half scared of him and his language,
and it's like a screaming Al Nelson, you know. I
mean, once you got by the first couple of weeks, you
understood. Yeah. Those two, Nelson and Esten,
would have trouble today in politically correct.
For more than language, too. But I guess Don Barker
would be, if I had to say one professor that I've had
experience with that was... the kind of man that
would stay up here all night or come back up here and
help you. He was probably on the cutting edge of the
computer industry at the time, and he helped more
people with their dissertations and their
thesis. As you think back to your student days, did
you ever feel you didn't get what you deserved in
terms of grades and so forth?
we knew. You pretty well got what you deserved.
I'll always remember in Ashcraft, Dr. Ashcraft's
class, I had a 91. It was the highest grade in the
class, and I got a B. And that's back when 92 was an A,
and I always thought that was terrible. And if I'd
have just gotten on that last exam, who patented
the barbed wire, I would have gotten an A. No, I
think to answer your question that... Most of the
time, I think the biggest problem, though, the
biggest problem in my days, there was help, but you
had to go look for it. And I think Texas A&M now,
especially the Corps of Cadets over here, they
emphasize over and over and over, we've got all of
these tools available, and we've got help
available, and we've got counseling. The average
student seems to think they've got to go to Mr.
Bill's the night before an exam or two nights
before and pay all this money. But I think a lot of
it, if I had had the upperclassman or somebody when
I started off, when I started having some
problems, direct me instead of me having to go
myself. Because I was so wrapped up like most
students, the core was more important than
school. Or it was to me. And that's why I've always
admired the students that come in here and they
want to major in nuclear physics or something. And
they know they've got to start off and do well.
You never were in grade troubles, were you? I know,
but I never was really what you call really, really
outstanding. See, that's why I enjoyed being able
to come back to graduate school. And then I had
completed five courses, I guess, on my Ph.D. and
had all As, but then there was just three of us in the
Commandant's office, and that's when I quit going
to graduate school. Now, when did you and your
buddies study? What was your typical study? We
were required freshman and sophomore year to
study three hours a night. Did you really do it? Oh,
yes. Well, you sat at your desk, and let me tell you,
it's hard to study. It's hard to study when you've
got the window open and it's 98 degrees, it's
humid, or even if it's 88 degrees and humid, and
you're sitting there and you and your roommate in
those straight back chairs. So it was hard to
study. The main thing is it's hard to stay awake.
How did you all keep the room cool? Did you have a
fan? The best way to keep the room cool was that you
were fortunate enough to have an upperclassman
across the hall that left their window open. We
didn't have a fan freshman year, no. But if you had
that ventilation of just going straight through,
you sometimes get a little air. It just sometimes
was miserable. And I think everybody should go
over to the Hart Hall today, where it's about $600
and something a semester, and see what it was like.
During your era, Korean War was over. Were there
any national or international events that were so
striking that you remember where you were when you
heard the news? I think going back to your
statement the Korean War was over with, we had a
large number of NCOs, and most of those NCOs had
been officers. And that was always interesting
because even though your ROTC class just met two or
three times a week, those sergeants were very,
very important. And we were shocked to find out
this was a major or lieutenant colonel or
whatever. But I think during my time, I know the one
event that stands out the most in my life was I was
second lieutenant at Fort Bragg when Kennedy was
assassinated, President Kennedy. But I think
if I go back and think about things that happened,
I'd have a hard time really telling you. I can't
think of any. That's why I think 9-1-1 was such a
shock to this country. We'd been a number of years
without such. that yes, you and I did watch the TV
the night Desert Storm started. And we got the
commentary there from the hotel room, but I don't
think it is. It's not like our parents, when they
had the many, many things from Roosevelt dying to
victories in either theater or D-Day or I'm
getting ready to talk about traditions now.
Describe for you and your buddies a typical home
football day or weekend. What happened when and
what all did you all do? Well, the upperclassmen
were usually pretty good about if you had a date,
you were left alone. Of course, your date would
have to go down and be on the cement benches outside
the dorm so everybody could look out the window at
the girls, but the freshmen would usually,
starting off your freshman year, unless unless
you had a blind date or a date with some sophomore or
junior's girlfriend that was bringing one. And
that usually never happened because people
usually stayed with their classes. But midnight
yell practice was always a big deal. And you'd
still have to be back at the dorm at a certain time in
most of the outfits. You know, they'd have it like 1
o'clock. And then we'd have drill on Saturday
mornings, which was football. Was it held at? And
your day, it's held? We were at the Grove, and then I
guess it, and Bo could tell you on this, but I guess
it was our junior, it seemed like our junior or
senior year it went to Kyle Field. But when it was at
the Grove? It was wild. Oh, was it at 8 o'clock? We
had it earlier. It was not the midnight yell. But we
also had two yell practices a week, you know, like
you'd rush out a chow to get over there, and it was
a... black belt privilege to go to Yale practice,
not the freshman, sophomore. A large number of the
juniors and seniors didn't go, and probably the
best typical picture of that is what you see in the
Bear Bryant movie when you see them in there and
everybody just squeezed up. And finally, because
of safety, I would guess that was probably the
reason they moved us out of the Grove. But it was
wild. Of course, if we won the game, you know, you
had the tradition of the yell practice. We
outscored the game, I should say, and we didn't in
my five years here at college, we didn't have a
50-50 season. So we hit the Myers and Fulberg era.
Now, as a fish, if you were to go down and try to grab
the yell eaters and throw them in the pond, where
did the date wait for you? That was one of those
deals in the stands you'd say, okay, you always had
to walk in wounded, never outfit, and they'd
gather up the dates, and then you'd meet
somewhere, you know, and it was kind of like in the
dorm. Lots of times you'd gather up, because we'd
march into the game, you'd gather up the gals and
bring them to the stadium, you know, and you'd sit.
I often think how those girls must have thought,
what they must have thought. Yeah, did you? Were
you, did you have a steady date with her? No, no, I
never did. I was one of those guys that probably
didn't have a dozen dates in five years here, you
know. Did, if a guy had a first date with a young lady
at a football game, did he still kiss her after? Oh,
yes, yes, yes. And how did she, was she well aware of
that? Oh, yes, everybody was well aware of that,
you know. And would you practice that at Yale
practice? I can't remember. I can't remember. Do
you remember any important football game pranks
other than the turning the armadillos loose?
But the only thing I really, and it's terrible,
that's why I have a problem talking to some of my
classmates that can remember all this trivia. I
remember, not a prank, but I do remember going to
Dallas for the SMU game my junior year when it was so
foggy in the night that Johnny Harton got killed,
and the guy that had to wreck with him was set across
from me in biology lab. And so, and he was not
injured very badly at all, but of course Johnny
Harton was killed. Pranks at football games, one
of the things I always remember is when we were
having the court trip, we'd always get briefs,
start your freshman year, if they're throwing
anything out from the tops of the buildings, you
know, the back two ranks and the first rank breaks
off and you're going, you know, and all of this. And
we were just gobbled up with the dumb tail, I guess,
you know, we really thought.
There were just a lot of times we'd go to the games
and we always remembered that the bulls were
always around, so you were very careful if you did
anything wrong. It seemed like they were always in
view of you during the day or something like that.
Among the great traditions, silver tabs. Do you by
chance remember anything about your first silver
taps and the impression it made on you? No.
numerous articles and I just Can remember going
like we always went in it and I guess the one thing I
remember then It was silent. It was silent and the
lights were out and I think of course nowadays It is
still basically silent and you you you can see
lights and you can hear people talking a little bit
But it's still it's amazing. I think probably the
most interesting thing is I I think we went even as
seniors. And now, we went to Silver Taps as a
senior. I mean, I think we all basically, of
course, I think we all went. And now, Silver Taps,
if you go the first of the year or the first couple,
it's usually crowded. And then the numbers start
dwelling. And I know I've been a number of times
myself since I've been back. And usually, it's
when you know someone or something like that is the
reason you go. But the students. with the
exception of the Corps or people that know
something, I think, I don't think you have the
turnout that you should, although I'm the first to
tell you, and I've told you before, that I think the
traditions are mainly kept and new ones come about
because of the civilian girls, you know, here on
this campus. Did you ever hear of anybody even
thinking about a prank during the Silvertapes?
No. I've never heard one. That's kind of the sacred
cow I've always thought. The Silvertapes and
Muster. Of course, we had Muster. Muster then, we
had it and it was over with. Now it's turned into
such a big, big event, which is great. When you
first attended Muster, was it held out on the MFC?
MFC lawns, if I remember right, you know. And do you
have any feeling of what your first muster
reaction was? What did you think? No, I don't. I
think it was just a, to be very honest with you, I
think it was probably just another formation and
another thing that we had to go to. But I think
somewhere along the first or second year, it
became important to you, you know,
And we didn't have the large number of names called
or things like you have now, too. And now you see
where Muster is really oriented towards the
family of the deceased. And they do so much for
them. And there's so much publicity. But it's like
everything else. The student committees are so
involved. And it's a year-long program. Okay,
back on.
Bonfire. How long did you and your buddies work on
bonfire? Well we, if I remember right, we had three
day holiday here during the bonfire. We went out
and we went out to the cutting area. now there were
outfits that worked the stacking area and the band
was always over there but we always went to the
cutting area and it seemed like there was might
have been one or two other Saturdays we worked but
there were three days when we were out of school it
was just a holiday went out and worked on it, cut,
and the logs were brought in, and that was just
about it. We might have one night when they'd call
us out there to stack logs, but it was just really, a
bonfire only lasted a very, very short time, and
now it turned into, recent years, it turned into a
full year. And bonfire, in your era, was held on the
drill field? Duncan. Oh, was it? Oh, it was already
over? Okay. And what kind of stack? It was just
the... One level. And I think we may have started
going into the second level by the time I
graduated. And... It would always rain out there,
and Duncan was muddy.
Did anybody ever get hurt that you remember? It was
a junior privilege to the cutting area to swing an
axe and and we didn't have all of the machinery of
course there was always a few bulldozers and it was
seemed like my freshman sophomore year the two
years you participated in it it it was just muddy as
could be. I know my junior year I was still involved
and I've got some good pictures I've taken
photography class we got good pictures of the You
could see at least 12 or 13 groups bringing logs out
because you couldn't get a vehicle in, just
carrying them. But the worst thing was... Maybe a
broken arm or something like that, but I don't
remember any deaths or minor cuts. I just don't
remember us having any accidents. And the worst
behavior was somebody drinking a little? I don't
know that we ever had any in the outfit I was in. But
it was the night of the bonfire. There was, of
course, quite a few people getting drunk. It seems
like, if I can really remember right, my first two
years bonfire, we went out there and watched it.
Then we went back to the Darm study. It wasn't the
production that it turned into once you start
having young ladies here and young ladies
involved in building. From your era, what was the
value Oh, I think the real value